We present BootsTAP: Bootstrapped
Training for Tracking Any Point
In this visualization, you may not be able to see
what’s depicted. However, once you see the motion,
it’s clear that there’s a person walking across
a floor. Psychology experiments like this one,
from Johansson, have made it clear that people
can track things even when appearance isn’t enough
to recognize them. That tracking then gives
people information about space, affordance,
and physics. Thus, the goal of Tracking
Any Point, or TAP, is to enable detailed,
long-term tracking of surfaces in any scene.
Prior algorithms for TAP use exclusively
synthetic data. However, these datasets aren’t
a perfect match for the real world; algorithms
may memorize the statistics of these datasets,
and get confused when real scenes are different,
leading to unreliable performance. Complex and
strongly-biased algorithms are required to prevent
overfitting to the domain. However, for both
humans and machines, real-world data is abundant.
Here, we propose an algorithm that can use this
data to achieve state-of-the-art performance.
BootsTAP is a surprisingly simple
semi-supervised learning algorithm.
It’s based on the observation that tracks are
equivariant to spatial transformations of the
video like affine transformations, and they’re
invariant to non-spatial transformations like
JPEG compression. Therefore, if an algorithm
makes a prediction on one view of a video,
we can compute what the prediction should be
under affine transformation and degradation.
If the model’s prediction on the transformed
video doesn’t match, there is a signal for
learning. However, we find empirically that
simply training the model to provide matching
outputs for both videos, in a Siamese network
fashion, results in the model discovering
trivial solutions and collapsing. However,
student-teacher learning avoids the collapse.
We start with a strong TAPIR model which is
trained using synthetic data, following prior
state-of-the-art work. The only difference is
that we increase the capacity of the backbone,
as we will need extra capacity to absorb
the real-world data–an addition which
empirically provides little benefit given only
synthetic data. for the bootstrapping phase,
we continue to train the same model with the
same loss, but we add real-world data . We apply
a teacher TAPIR model, initialized in the same
way as the student, using random query points,
to get tracks to use as pseudo-labels. Then we
sample another query point along the trajectory,
and transform both the track and the video with
an affine transformation, and apply corruptions
to make the job more difficult for the student.
The student then makes a prediction, and we use
the teacher’s pseudo-labels as a target, using
a loss that’s similar to the supervised setting.
The student is updated via gradient descent.
The teacher is updated with an exponential
moving average of the student, which ensures it
produces stable, low-variance predictions even
if the student has a high learning rate.
As in the supervised case, the loss is a
combination of a Huber loss for position and a
classification loss for occlusion estimation.
The main difference is that targets come from
the teacher network. However, in rare cases,
the teacher predictions may have very large
errors. To prevent training on these cases,
we apply a cycle consistency check . If
the student’s prediction is further than
a threshold from the teacher’s query point on
the query frame, then the track is ignored.
Quantitatively, our model provides the
state-of-the-art performance across the TAP-Vid
benchmarks, and like TAPIR, it’s still fast:
on an A100, we can track 10,000 points across
a 50-frame, 256-by-256 video in 6 seconds. Our
online model tracks 400 points at 30 frames per
second, all while maintaining independence between
the predictions for different query points.
In real scenes, we see that Bootstrapping improves
on TAPIR both in terms of precise localization,
and also in terms of the number of points
that are lost. Note that TAPIR loses
points on the fox’s legs
whereas they are more
reliably detected after bootstrapping.
Similarly in this street scene, note that
TAPIR loses many of the points on the leg.
In robotics, we see that grids of points
maintain their structure even
though this gear has weak texture.
Bootstrapping can also improve
results given specific datasets:
for the right model, we did an extra
round of training specifically on
the Libero robotic manipulation dataset.
Visit our webpage for more visualizations,
or to download and try our state-of-the-art
models. And be sure to check out the many
recent and surprising applications of Tracking
Any Point, including video editing, robotics,
3D reconstruction, and much
more. Thanks for listening.